README.md, before:

# Forex Trading Journal

A professional-grade web application for Forex traders to track, analyze, and improve their trading performance. Built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS with a modern dark theme optimized for trading professionals.

## 🚀 Features

### Core Functionality

- **Comprehensive Trade Logging**: Track all essential trade details including pair, direction, entry/exit prices, lot size, stop loss, take profit, timestamps, and more
- **Performance Analytics**: Real-time statistics showing win rate, total P/L, average risk/reward ratio, and performance breakdowns
- **Advanced Filtering**: Filter trades by currency pair, strategy, outcome, and date range
- **Psychology Tracking**: Record emotional state and confidence levels to identify behavioral patterns
- **Strategy Analysis**: Compare performance across different trading strategies
- **Responsive Design**: Fully optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices

### Dashboard Views

1. **Dashboard**: Overview with key statistics and recent trades
2. **All Trades**: Complete trade history with filtering and sorting
3. **Analytics**: Detailed performance breakdowns and insights

### UI/UX Highlights

- Dark mode interface with emerald green (profits) and red (losses) color coding
- Smooth animations and hover effects
- Intuitive navigation and modal-based forms
- Professional trading platform aesthetic

## 🔧 Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: React 18 + TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui components
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **State Management**: React Hooks (useState)
- **Routing**: React Router DOM
- **Database Ready**: Prepared for Firebase/Supabase integration

## 📦 Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build
```

## 🔥 Firebase Integration Guide

The application is architected with database integration in mind. Here's how to connect Firebase:

### Step 1: Install Firebase

```bash
npm install firebase
```

### Step 2: Create Firebase Config

Create `src/lib/firebase.ts`:

```typescript
import { initializeApp } from "firebase/app";
import { getFirestore } from "firebase/firestore";

const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "YOUR_API_KEY",
  authDomain: "YOUR_AUTH_DOMAIN",
  projectId: "YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
  storageBucket: "YOUR_STORAGE_BUCKET",
  messagingSenderId: "YOUR_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID",
  appId: "YOUR_APP_ID",
};

const app = initializeApp(firebaseConfig);
export const db = getFirestore(app);
```

### Step 3: Create Firebase Hooks

Create `src/hooks/useTrades.ts`:

```typescript
import { useState, useEffect } from "react";
import {
  collection,
  addDoc,
  getDocs,
  deleteDoc,
  doc,
} from "firebase/firestore";
import { db } from "@/lib/firebase";
import { Trade } from "@/types/trade";

export const useTrades = () => {
  const [trades, setTrades] = useState<Trade[]>([]);
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(true);

  useEffect(() => {
    loadTrades();
  }, []);

  const loadTrades = async () => {
    const querySnapshot = await getDocs(collection(db, "trades"));
    const tradesData = querySnapshot.docs.map((doc) => ({
      id: doc.id,
      ...doc.data(),
    })) as Trade[];
    setTrades(tradesData);
    setLoading(false);
  };

  const addTrade = async (trade: Omit<Trade, "id">) => {
    const docRef = await addDoc(collection(db, "trades"), trade);
    setTrades([{ ...trade, id: docRef.id }, ...trades]);
  };

  const deleteTrade = async (id: string) => {
    await deleteDoc(doc(db, "trades", id));
    setTrades(trades.filter((t) => t.id !== id));
  };

  return { trades, loading, addTrade, deleteTrade };
};
```

### Step 4: Update AppLayout.tsx

Replace the useState line with:

```typescript
const { trades, loading, addTrade, deleteTrade } = useTrades();
```

## 📊 Data Structure

### Trade Interface

```typescript
interface Trade {
  id: string;
  pair: string; // e.g., "EUR/USD"
  direction: "long" | "short";
  entryPrice: number;
  exitPrice: number;
  lotSize: number;
  stopLoss: number;
  takeProfit: number;
  entryTime: string;
  exitTime: string;
  profitLoss: number; // in currency
  profitLossPips: number; // in pips
  strategy: string;
  emotionalState: string;
  confidence: number; // 1-10
  notes: string;
  tags: string[];
  riskRewardRatio: number;
  outcome: "win" | "loss" | "breakeven";
}
```

## 🎨 Customization

### Colors

The app uses Tailwind's color system. Key colors:

- **Profits**: `emerald-500`, `emerald-600`
- **Losses**: `red-500`, `red-600`
- **Background**: `slate-900`, `slate-800`
- **Text**: `white`, `slate-300`, `slate-400`

### Adding New Currency Pairs

Edit `src/components/AddTradeForm.tsx` and add to the select options:

```typescript
<option>YOUR/PAIR</option>
```

## 📱 Mobile Optimization

The app is fully responsive with:

- Collapsible navigation on mobile
- Touch-optimized buttons and inputs
- Responsive grid layouts
- Mobile-friendly tables with horizontal scroll

## 🔒 Security Considerations

When integrating Firebase:

1. Enable Firebase Authentication for user-specific data
2. Set up Firestore security rules
3. Use environment variables for API keys
4. Implement user authentication before accessing trades

## 📈 Future Enhancements

- [ ] User authentication system
- [ ] Chart screenshot uploads
- [ ] Export to CSV/PDF
- [ ] Advanced charting with equity curves
- [ ] Trade journaling with rich text editor
- [ ] Performance comparison tools
- [ ] Mobile app version
- [ ] Real-time price data integration

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this for your trading journey!

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

Built with ❤️ for Forex traders who take their craft seriously.

## IMPORTANT

## NEW Instruction

I already set up my app to use Firestore for storing trades, but because I don’t have a credit/debit card, I can’t enable billing. For now, I want to switch to Realtime Database instead.

Please do the following:

Keep my Firestore setup in place, but mark it clearly as inactive/not working until billing is enabled.

Add a Realtime Database setup that mirrors the same data structure as Firestore (e.g., /users/{uid}/trades/{tradeId} → each trade has pair, entry, exit, profit, timestamp).

Abstract all database calls (CRUD for trades) into a single file (e.g., db.ts or journalService.ts).

Example functions: addTrade(uid, trade), getTrades(uid), updateTrade(uid, tradeId, trade), deleteTrade(uid, tradeId).

Make it so that the app currently uses Realtime DB, but once billing is available, I can just remove the Realtime DB code and activate the Firestore code in the same service file without changing the rest of the app.

Keep the structure consistent with Firestore collections so migration is only a matter of import/export.

Commit message:

migrated from Vite to Next js

README.md, after:

# Forex Trading Journal

A professional-grade web application for Forex traders to track, analyze, and improve their trading performance. Built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS with a modern dark theme optimized for trading professionals.

## 🚀 Features

### Core Functionality

- **Comprehensive Trade Logging**: Track all essential trade details including pair, direction, entry/exit prices, lot size, stop loss, take profit, timestamps, and more
- **Performance Analytics**: Real-time statistics showing win rate, total P/L, average risk/reward ratio, and performance breakdowns
- **Advanced Filtering**: Filter trades by currency pair, strategy, outcome, and date range
- **Psychology Tracking**: Record emotional state and confidence levels to identify behavioral patterns
- **Strategy Analysis**: Compare performance across different trading strategies
- **Responsive Design**: Fully optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices

### Dashboard Views

1. **Dashboard**: Overview with key statistics and recent trades
2. **All Trades**: Complete trade history with filtering and sorting
3. **Analytics**: Detailed performance breakdowns and insights

### UI/UX Highlights

- Dark mode interface with emerald green (profits) and red (losses) color coding
- Smooth animations and hover effects
- Intuitive navigation and modal-based forms
- Professional trading platform aesthetic

## Next.js Migration

This project has been migrated from Vite to Next.js to take advantage of its features like Server-Side Rendering (SSR), Static Site Generation (SSG), and improved SEO.

### Key Changes

- **Routing**: Replaced `react-router-dom` with Next.js's App Router.
- **Project Structure**: The project now follows the Next.js `app` directory structure.
- **Configuration**: Replaced `vite.config.ts` with `next.config.js`.
- **Dependencies**: Updated dependencies to be compatible with Next.js and React 19.

## 🔧 Technology Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 14
- **Frontend**: React 19 + TypeScript
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui components
- **State Management**: React Hooks (useState)
- **Database Ready**: Prepared for Firebase/Supabase integration

## 📦 Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm run start
```

## 🔥 Firebase Integration Guide

The application is architected with database integration in mind. Here's how to connect Firebase:

### Step 1: Install Firebase

```bash
npm install firebase
```

### Step 2: Create Firebase Config

Create `src/lib/firebase.ts`:

```typescript
import { initializeApp } from "firebase/app";
import { getFirestore } from "firebase/firestore";

const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "YOUR_API_KEY",
  authDomain: "YOUR_AUTH_DOMAIN",
  projectId: "YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
  storageBucket: "YOUR_STORAGE_BUCKET",
  messagingSenderId: "YOUR_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID",
  appId: "YOUR_APP_ID",
};

const app = initializeApp(firebaseConfig);
export const db = getFirestore(app);
```

### Step 3: Create Firebase Hooks

Create `src/hooks/useTrades.ts`:

```typescript
import { useState, useEffect } from "react";
import {
  collection,
  addDoc,
  getDocs,
  deleteDoc,
  doc,
} from "firebase/firestore";
import { db } from "@/lib/firebase";
import { Trade } from "@/types/trade";

export const useTrades = () => {
  const [trades, setTrades] = useState<Trade[]>([]);
  const [loading, setLoading] = useState(true);

  useEffect(() => {
    loadTrades();
  }, []);

  const loadTrades = async () => {
    const querySnapshot = await getDocs(collection(db, "trades"));
    const tradesData = querySnapshot.docs.map((doc) => ({
      id: doc.id,
      ...doc.data(),
    })) as Trade[];
    setTrades(tradesData);
    setLoading(false);
  };

  const addTrade = async (trade: Omit<Trade, "id">) => {
    const docRef = await addDoc(collection(db, "trades"), trade);
    setTrades([{ ...trade, id: docRef.id }, ...trades]);
  };

  const deleteTrade = async (id: string) => {
    await deleteDoc(doc(db, "trades", id));
    setTrades(trades.filter((t) => t.id !== id));
  };

  return { trades, loading, addTrade, deleteTrade };
};
```

### Step 4: Update AppLayout.tsx

Replace the useState line with:

```typescript
const { trades, loading, addTrade, deleteTrade } = useTrades();
```

## 📊 Data Structure

### Trade Interface

```typescript
interface Trade {
  id: string;
  pair: string; // e.g., "EUR/USD"
  direction: "long" | "short";
  entryPrice: number;
  exitPrice: number;
  lotSize: number;
  stopLoss: number;
  takeProfit: number;
  entryTime: string;
  exitTime: string;
  profitLoss: number; // in currency
  profitLossPips: number; // in pips
  strategy: string;
  emotionalState: string;
  confidence: number; // 1-10
  notes: string;
  tags: string[];
  riskRewardRatio: number;
  outcome: "win" | "loss" | "breakeven";
}
```

## 🎨 Customization

### Colors

The app uses Tailwind's color system. Key colors:

- **Profits**: `emerald-500`, `emerald-600`
- **Losses**: `red-500`, `red-600`
- **Background**: `slate-900`, `slate-800`
- **Text**: `white`, `slate-300`, `slate-400`

### Adding New Currency Pairs

Edit `src/components/AddTradeForm.tsx` and add to the select options:

```typescript
<option>YOUR/PAIR</option>
```

## 📱 Mobile Optimization

The app is fully responsive with:

- Collapsible navigation on mobile
- Touch-optimized buttons and inputs
- Responsive grid layouts
- Mobile-friendly tables with horizontal scroll

## 🔒 Security Considerations

When integrating Firebase:

1. Enable Firebase Authentication for user-specific data
2. Set up Firestore security rules
3. Use environment variables for API keys
4. Implement user authentication before accessing trades

## 📈 Future Enhancements

- [ ] User authentication system
- [ ] Chart screenshot uploads
- [ ] Export to CSV/PDF
- [ ] Advanced charting with equity curves
- [ ] Trade journaling with rich text editor
- [ ] Performance comparison tools
- [ ] Mobile app version
- [ ] Real-time price data integration

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to use this for your trading journey!

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

---

Built with ❤️ for Forex traders who take their craft seriously.

## IMPORTANT

## NEW Instruction

I already set up my app to use Firestore for storing trades, but because I don’t have a credit/debit card, I can’t enable billing. For now, I want to switch to Realtime Database instead.

Please do the following:

Keep my Firestore setup in place, but mark it clearly as inactive/not working until billing is enabled.

Add a Realtime Database setup that mirrors the same data structure as Firestore (e.g., /users/{uid}/trades/{tradeId} → each trade has pair, entry, exit, profit, timestamp).

Abstract all database calls (CRUD for trades) into a single file (e.g., db.ts or journalService.ts).

Example functions: addTrade(uid, trade), getTrades(uid), updateTrade(uid, tradeId, trade), deleteTrade(uid, tradeId).

Make it so that the app currently uses Realtime DB, but once billing is available, I can just remove the Realtime DB code and activate the Firestore code in the same service file without changing the rest of the app.

Keep the structure consistent with Firestore collections so migration is only a matter of import/export.
